# CWE 79

## What is CWE 79 about?

CWE 79 is **`Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation ('Cross-site Scripting')` .** The vulnerability occurs **w**hen the user input is handled without performing proper validation or encoding. 

## Impact

- Stealing of Sensitive information
- Account Hijacking
- Data Leakage

## Example with Code Explanation

## `Java`

### Vulnerable Code

- Let us consider an typical scenario in which the web application accepts user input via `Search` bar and the code looks similar to below:

```jsx
String userInput = request.getParameter("userInput");

out.println("You searched for: " + userInput);
```

- In the above case, the user input is directly taken and used without any encoding or proper validation which enables in XSS.

## Mitigated Code (Best Practice)

```jsx
 String userInput = request.getParameter("userInput");

userInput = ESAPI.encoder().encodeForHTML(userInput);

out.println("You searched for: " + userInput);
```

- In the above code, we are using OWASP ESAPI encoder which sanitizes user input and prevents XSS attacks.

## `.Net`

## Mitigation

- We believe the mitigation may require a combination of these techniques.
    - `Input validation:` Ensure that user input is in the expected format and does not contain any malicious code.
    - `Output encoding:` Use a whitelist of allowed characters and encode any other characters using functions like **`encodeForHTML()`**, **`encodeForJavaScript()`** and **`encodeForCSS()`** to prevent malicious code from being executed.
    - `Context-aware output encoding:` Use correct encoding function based on the context of the user input, for example, if the input is being used in a javascript, use **`encodeForJavaScript()`** instead of **`encodeForHTML()`**
    - `Content Security Policy (CSP):` Use a CSP to define a set of rules that limit the sources of content that a web page can load. This can help to prevent malicious code from being executed by the browser.
    - Use a framework or library that has built-in XSS protection: Many web development frameworks and libraries, such as AngularJS, React, and Vue.js, have built-in XSS protection mechanisms that can help to prevent XSS attacks.

## References

[Cross Site Scripting (XSS)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/)

[The Impact of Cross-Site Scripting Vulnerabilities and their Prevention](https://cypressdatadefense.com/blog/cross-site-scripting-vulnerability/)